- In Java EE 8, JSF 2.3 introduced
direct support for WebSockets
with the introduction of a new WebSocket tag
that works in coordination with the new PushContext.
Let's take a look at how WebSockets can be leveraged
using the Jave EE 8 features.
To demonstrate JSF support for WebSockets,
we're going to rebuild our help chat using JSF components.
You will notice that a help.xhtml page
and an associated backing bean
have been placed within the JSF project.
We'll take a quick look here.
It's pretty much just a mimic
of what we created in our last lesson,
except now we're using JSF components
and we have the bindings established to the backing bean.
So you know, two controls on the form,
a name, and a message text,
which will provide the chat functionality,
and then a submit button.
You'll notice these are all bound to the backing bean,
so there's the string for the message text,
string for the name, and then we have
the send message method.
So let's dive in.
The first thing we need to do
is actually add come configuration to our web.xml file
to enable the WebSocket support within JSF.
So to do that, we are going to create a new context param.
The param name is going to be
javax.faces.ENABLE_WEBSOCKET_ENDPOINT.
Okay, and then the value is simply going to be set to true.
And once that's in place, just go ahead
and save your web.xml file.
Now one thing I will stress here
is make sure that your server is stopped
so these changes will take effect.
There can be some issues if your server's already running.
Okay, next we're going to head over to the backing bean,
and within the backing bean
we're going to be adding the PushContext.
So let's create a new field,
and this is going to be the Java EE 8 PushContext.
And we're going to name that object the helpChannel,
so this is going to represent a PushContext
that corresponds with our WebSocket.
So we'll go ahead, import the PushContext type.
Then from here we need to inject the PushContext,
and we also need to add the Push annotation
to specify the channel, which is going to be help.
And at this point everything is set up on our PushContext.
We just need to add some logic here,
so when we send a message we want to actually
send that message over to our channel
that's been established with the PushContext.
So we can reference the help channel
and you'll see very simply there's a send method.
And then let's just format a string
in order to send that message to our WebSocket,
and then we'll provide the name
and the message text as arguments to the format method,
and we now have constructed our message,
which is going to be sent to the WebSocket
and then eventually out to the client.
The client in this case is going to be the web browser,
and we can establish support within our help.xhtml file
for WebSockets by using the new WebSocket tag.
So let's go ahead and we can put that in place.
It's simply f, and then colon, websocket,
so it's under the facelets tag library.
And then we need to provide two attributes on this tag.
The first is the channel.
You'll remember that we specified its name as "help",
so that's how it connects to the WebSocket,
via that channel name.
And then the next thing we need to provide
is the on message attribute,
and this is going to point to a JavaScript function
that we are going to execute when a message is received.
So I'm just going to name
that JavaScript function "onMessage",
and then we'll need to create it.
So let's go ahead, add a script tag.
Let's get some room here.
And then we're going to go build out
our new onMessage function.
And the onMessage function is going to
get several arguments that are provided to it,
and they're going to look very similar
to what we created with the JavaScript
native support for WebSockets.
You're going to get the message,
you can also get the channel, and then here's the event.
Now once we receive that,
you'll notice we have the div
that we're going to display the messages in.
Let's go ahead and get that div
using JavaScript.
And then we're going to update the markup
within that div to include
the message sent over the WebSocket.
Okay?
And then there's just one final thing that we need to do.
Right now, if we take a look at our command button,
this is going to cause a full request to be sent.
We're going to switch that over to AJAX.
So within JSF, the facelets tag library
provides support for AJAX,
there's an AJAX tag that we can use.
And when we use it we need to specify
what is going to be updated in the backing bean.
And for that we use the execute attribute.
And there's a handy way to just specify,
hey, every binding in the form,
update that on the backing bean,
that way our message text and name will be updated.
So we're just going to use @form
as the value there for execute.
And then the next thing that you specify
is this render attribute.
And this says what element on the dom
or the user interface needs to be refreshed.
In this case, we want to refresh our message div
so that it displays the content that we're adding.
Okay, let's go ahead and save our application.
And then we're going to launch the application,
we'll see a console spin up here,
and I'll start opening up browsers
so that we can get two clients connected.
Right, looks like we're up.
And you'll notice we added a separate link
for our JSF version of the help chat.
So let's pick two people, Steve and Jack.
Steve's going to say there is an issue,
and you'll notice it's sent over, Jack can respond.
So that was a look at the support
found within JSF for WebSockets.
It was very simple to set that up,
pure tag based approach,
and not a lot of work on our part.
But you can find that support,
it's based on the new PushContext within Java EE 8,
so it ties together a lot of the new features
in Java EE 8 to provide that capability.